hung and norboo

a man whose ancestors have been rich for generations dies
his eldest son gets everything and youger son goes to forest
villagers help youngest son build hut
youngest son lives on hunting and trapping after being kicked out

during a bad winter, his child is sick, he begs at villagers doors, but they have nothing
he begs at brothers house, but his brother, who's store houses are bursting, has nothing to spare, every grain has been spoken for

desperate, starving and in a daze the younger brother returns home, checking the traps that are no doubt empty
what luck - it appears one of the traps has caught something - his baby may have some food yet
however one of the traps has caught a raven - a raven that can talk - and asks him to spare his life
the younger brother agrees

he sets the raven free

the raven tells him the story of rumplestiltskin and then tells him he will give him a magic pumpkin seed.

the younger brother goes home trying to figure out what he will tell his wife about why he set the raven free

but when he gets home, he smells something delicious, and his wife opens the door smiling, one of the villagers had found some food that they had forgot they had - and that night the younger brother's family eats well, and he forgets all about the raven.

from time to time when he does remember the raven and the seed, he thinks its a dream he had when he was starving.

so it's a surprise when the raven approaches him one day when he is working on his traps and drops a seed into his hand and tells him not to pick the pumpkin until it is ripe no matter how big it gets.

he rushes home to tell his wife - who is sure has been in the sun too long - and tells him to go have a nap.

she takes the bean from him. she promises she will plant it as soon as he goes to bed and gets some rest.

after he has gone upstairs to bed so throws the bean out window and goes back to work washing clothes. 

the next morning he wakes up, and forgets all about the bean once again.

weeks go by, and their child comes in excited and his mom about a plant growing next to the house. the child wants to know if it's ok to eat.

the wife says it ok go and eat it. the child is about to eat when she remembers promising her husband not to eat a pumpkin until it was ripe. so even though she thinks it is foolish tells the child to ask father when he comes home.

that night when father comes home, the child asks if the pumpkin is ready to eat. he remembers the raven's words, and tell's his child to wait.

the younger brother, tends to the pumpkin, and soon enough it is ready to harvest.

the family carries the pumpkin into the house, and is surprised to find the pumpkin filled with gold nuggets.

he goes to his younger and trades the gold nuggets for rice and land.

older brother wants to know where he got the nuggets.

he tells him. but the other brother doesn't believe him - so has him tortured or not - and he dies or not.

the older brother determined to find the talking raven, sends a 100 trappers into the wood, killing all the birds in the wood until the raven is caught.

the older brother captures the ravens family as hostages or not.

the raven promises to bring him a magic pumpkin seed.

the raven brings him the seed as promised, and repeats that the pumpkin should not be picked until it is ripe.

the older brother gets the seed and plants it.

when it is ready for harvest the older brother opens it and famine marhes out and eats all the rice in older brothers store rooms.